The following is a summary of findings from recent independent opinion polls and surveys about European economic and monetary union (EMU).
COPENHAGEN, June 4 - Close to half decision-makers at Denmark's leading institutional investors now believe that economic and monetary union will go ahead on January 1, 1999 compared to five percent a year ago, a new poll shows. A poll of 50 senior executives undertaken by unit trust Danske Invest showed that 48 percent believed that monetary union would take place as planned, 38 percent thought it would stick to the timetable but with only a few members and 14 percent believed it would be postponed.
SWEDEN, May 29 - Sweden's ruling Social Democrat party will probably agree to join European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), but in 2003 and not in the first wave in 1999, analysts polled by Reuters said. The survey of 10 analysts in Stockholm and London showed they believed the chances of Sweden saying yes to membership in 2003 was on average 51 percent. The probability of Sweden saying yes to joining in 2001 was 32.5 percent, which was the second most likely scenario expected by analysts.
SWEDEN, May 15 - Three percent of market players believe Sweden will join EMU from its 1999 start, down from seven percent in March, a poll by TEMO and brokerage Ohman showed. The survey also showed that in May, 82 percent believed EMU would start on time, up from 68 percent in March and 80 percent in February.
EUROPE, May 9 - The market believes there is a more than 50 percent chance Britain will join the launch of EMU in 1999, a leap in expectations since a week ago, according to financial prices monitored by JP Morgan. The probability assumed by the market of Britain joining Germany and France in the first wave of EMU jumped to 53 percent from 36 the previous week.
GERMANY, May 9 - Half of a sample of 1,200 eastern Germans want the single currency to be delayed and just six percent wanted the euro launched on time, a survey in the Saechsischer Zeitung newspaper showed on Friday. Hopes that the single currency would have beneficial effects also shrunk, with just 11 percent saying EMU would be positive for Germany -- down from 15 percent last December.
BRITAIN, May 8 - Just over half Britain's company finance directors would support British entry into a single European currency, a survey by recruitment firm Reed Accountancy Personnel showed. The poll found 52 percent of 200 finance directors supported membership of EMU, 38 percent were against joining and the remainder were undecided. About one-in-five said the UK should definitely join EMU while 31 percent said Britain should probably join. (The following news release was provided by IBCA)
EUROPE, May 7 - IBCA, the European credit rating agency, said it expected 10 countries to be included in the first wave. These comprise Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain. Those countries not participating immediately are likely to be Denmark, Greece, Italy, Sweden and the UK. However, given the policy stance of the new British government, IBCA said there was an increased probability that Britain would participate in EMU shortly after its start date.
SWEDEN, May 6 - Opposition to joining monetary union is falling, with every second Swede now supporting participation, according to a poll commissioned by JP Bank and daily Finanstidningen and carried out by pollster Sifo. The number of Swedes opposing EMU fell to 35 percent in May from 37 percent in an earlier poll in March. Of the 50 percent in favour of membership, 26 percent want Sweden to join from the start in 1999, up from 24 percent in March, while 24 percent want to wait, unchanged from the previous month. Fifteen percent were undecided in the May poll.
AUSTRIA, April 28 - Austrian dissatisfaction with the European Union is running at an all-time high at 64 percent, a survey showed on Monday, and only 34 percent of those polled saw more advantages from EU membership. Asked how they would vote were there a vote next Sunday, 62 percent of those polled said they would oppose EU membership while 36 percent would vote in favour, the survey conducted by the Austrian research institute Market said.
SWEDEN, April 25 - Most local activists of Sweden's minority ruling Social Democrats want Sweden to stay outside Europe's economic and monetary union (EMU) at its 1999 start to be able to see how it works, Dagens Industri newspaper said on Friday. A survey by the newspaper showed that 178 local Social Democratic representatives out of a total 350 thought Sweden should wait and see and possibly join EMU at a later stage.
FINLAND, April 24 - Eighty-four percent of Finnish companies want Finland to join the European economic and monetary union (EMU) quickly among the first countries, two leading industry lobbies said on Thursday. "As much as 84 percent (in a recent poll) favoured joining quickly, along with the first countries, 14 percent wanted a slower timetable and the rest said Finland should not join at all," the Confederation of Industry and Employers (TT) and the Central Chamber of Commerce (CCC) said in a joint statement. Ten percent wanted Finland to wait for Sweden's decision, they said.
BRITAIN, April 17 - A MORI poll for the Times newspaper showed nearly three-fifths of the public endorsed former Prime Minister John Major's line that Britain should keep its options open on a single currency.
EUROPE, April 17 - Chances of European currency union starting on time seem to be improving because fewer countries are expected to qualify from the outset, EMU analysts said in a Reuters survey. All respondents were 100 percent sure that France, Germany and the Netherlands would be in the first wave. Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg were rated 100 percent certainties by 82 percent, 84 percent and 97 percent of respondents respectively. The poll also showed that the Maastricht criteria would not necessarily guarantee convergence in the continent's economies.
GERMANY, April 7 - Most German voters want the single currency to be delayed but a majority do not want the euro to be a campaign issue in next year's election, an Emnid poll showed.
FINLAND, April 3 - A survey among slightly more than 2,000 people by polling institute Taloustutkimus Oy found opposition to EMU rising to 46 percent in February/March from 41 percent in February, and support fell to 36 percent from 38 percent. The rest were undecided.
-- London Polling Unit +44 171 542 5223