British multi-utility Hyder Plc weighed into the debate on the new Labour government's proposed "windfall" tax on Monday, saying the levy should be based on turnover or operating profit.
"The simplest way would be based on published information and there is published information on turnover, operating profit, with reference to the regulated parts of the business," chief executive Graham Hawker told a press conference for Hyder's annual results.
Labour, which rolled into power on the crest of a huge majority in a general election on May 1, has made a tax on the excess profits of privatised utilities to fund a three billion pound ($4.9 billion) programme to cut unemployment a central plank of its first budget, due on July 2.
But further details of the tax remain undisclosed as companies were asked to submit comments by the end of May with regulators giving their views in the first two weeks of June.
Hyder, which accepts the government has a mandate for such a tax, said in a statement with results that it sought "fairness and appropriateness in the basis of application of the levy."
Hyder's pretax profits soared to 208.2 million pounds in the year ending March 31, 1997 from 112.9 million a year ago, benefiting from a full year contribution from South Wales Electricity, which was taken over by Welsh Water in January 1996 to form the merged group.
Hawker said if the tax were based on turnover or operating profit, it would reflect more accurately the amount of voluntary customer rebates and extra investment which companies had made.
Hyder warned that if the tax were too onerous, it would have to look again at "our discretionary and environmental investments and voluntary customer discounts."
That view echoed comments from fellow multi-tasking group United Utilities, which said at the end of May that it wanted to be treated leniently because it had already given benefits to customers.
Water and electricity companies have long been the focus of Labour and consumer lobby criticism over chunky dividends and executive pay packets seen in the years since they were privatised by the previous Conservative government.
Water firms have also faced scorn for struggling to cope as the country suffers its worst drought for 200 years while nearly 800 million gallons of supplies seep out of their pipes daily.
Several have moved to give customer rebates or price reductions in an attempt to cool down public anger at their "fat cat" image, along with extra investment in areas of environmental concern and services.
But the two groups are largely seen as prime targets for Labour's tax plans, although analysts have said the net could be cast wide enough to include British Telecommunications (BT), the former British Gas utility Centrica and even Railtrack and British Airports Authority (BAA).
BAA, which also reported year results on Monday, reiterated its stance that it did not think it should be liable to the tax but declined to comment further.
But several utilities have taken advantage of annual results announcements in the last few weeks to make their views on the tax proposal known.
Electricity generator National Power argued that it should not be subject to the levy because it had not made excess profits and argued that because it was sold in tranches, the state had already reaped the benefit of share price rises and dividends in between sales.
That view was reportedly echoed by its colleague, generator PowerGen, although the company did not comment at its results.
Anglian Water said any proceeds from a levy should be used in the area it served.
National Grid, which runs Britain's electricity transmission network, said it should not be subject to a tax because it was only demerged from the reginal electricity companies in 1995 and nuclear generator British Energy said it should not pay because it was only floated nine months ago.
Analysts generally expect the government to give a broad base definition of companies which are liable, to avoid any allegations of bias, followed by a formula to calculate specific liabilities which would narrow the levy's scope.
A total levy of around five billion pounds is widely anticipated, although some speculation has put the figure as high as 10 billion.
Analysts have largely focused on two types of formula to decide the amounts paid by individual companies -- premiums to flotation price and total returns to shareholders against an industry average.
But Hyder's Hawker said on Monday that a levy based on total returns "doesn't work" because it would not reflect extra payments to customers and investment.
REUTER ($ = 0.612 British Pounds)