The following is a summary of findings from recent independent opinion polls and surveys about European economic and monetary union (EMU).
GERMANY, June 8 - Eighty-two percent of Germans, parting company with Chancellor Helmut Kohl, want EMU to be delayed if member countries cannot meet the Maastricht criteria, according to an IRNA poll for Focus magazine. The respondents were evenly split on whether the single currency would be launched on time.
EUROPE, June 6 (Reuter) - Expectations of a broad-based start to EMU were little changed even as developments in France and Germany increased perceptions of a wider, softer euro, prices monitored by JP Morgan showed Friday.
The perceived EMU probability in Sweden -- which announced it would not join EMU from the start -- drifted slightly lower to 61 percent while Spain's chances as assumed by markets firmed a touch to 77 percent from 75 last week.
The JP Morgan "EMU" calculator showed the probability of France and Germany founding the single currency unchanged at 100 percent. The implied probability of Belgium joining EMU from the start returned to 100 percent from 96 last week.
Overall, expectations that other EMU hopefuls will join Germany and France from the start were little changed.
GERMANY, June 6 - A slender majority of Germans are opposed to Bonn's plan to revalue Bundesbank gold reserves to help Germany qualify for EMU, according to a survey, carried out by the DIMAP research institute for the newspaper Bild and the MDR television channel. The poll found that 52 percent of the 1,100 Germans interviewed were against the plan, while 37 percent were in favour. Eleven percent had no opinion.
FINLAND, June 5 - Forty-four percent of Finns oppose joining EMU against 36 percent in favour, according to Finnish news agency STT, citing a new poll by research company Taloustutkimus.
It did not make clear if the remaining 20 percent in the poll, for the Conservative Party's Verkkouutiset paper, were undecided.
FRANCE, June 5 - A majority of voters want France to renegotiate conditions for joining the single European currency, according to an Ipsos poll on Thursday, the first such survey since a left-wing victory in a parliamentary election.
The survey, to be published in the weekly Le Point, said a 52 to 36 percent majority favoured renegotiating the Maastricht treaty conditions for qualifying for the euro from 1999.
GERMANY, June 5 - Seventy-one percent of Germans surveyed in a new Forsa poll backed a delay in the start of EMU and 45 percent doubted Bonn could meet the Maastricht criteria, Die Woche weekly reported. The survey showed only 21 percent of the 1,002 people queried backed Chancellor Helmut Kohl's firm stand that European Union countries should stick to the 1999 deadline.
FINLAND, June 4 - A clear majority of Finns expect their country to join EMU from the start, according to a poll by a pro-EU association, Eurooppalainen Suomi. Of 1,003 respondents polled by telephone between May 27 and June 3 by research institute Taloustutkimus, 78 percent believed Finland would join EMU from the start, while 12 percent did not expect Finland to join and 10 percent were undecided, it said.
DENMARK, June 4 - Close to half decision-makers at Denmark's leading institutional investors now believe that economic and monetary union will go ahead on January 1, 1999 compared to five percent a year ago, a new poll shows. A poll of 50 senior executives undertaken by unit trust Danske Invest showed that 48 percent believed that monetary union would take place as planned, 38 percent thought it would stick to the timetable but with only a few members and 14 percent believed it would be postponed.
SWEDEN, May 29 - Sweden's ruling Social Democrat party will probably agree to join European economic and monetary union (EMU), but in 2003 and not in the first wave in 1999, analysts polled by Reuters said. The survey of 10 analysts in Stockholm and London showed they believed the chances of Sweden saying yes to membership in 2003 was on average 51 percent. The probability of Sweden saying yes to joining in 2001 was 32.5 percent, which was the second most likely scenario expected by analysts.
SWEDEN, May 15 - Three percent of market players believe Sweden will join EMU from its 1999 start, down from seven percent in March, a poll by TEMO and brokerage Ohman showed. The survey also showed that in May, 82 percent believed EMU would start on time, up from 68 percent in March and 80 percent in February.
EUROPE, May 9 - The market believes there is a more than 50 percent chance Britain will join the launch of EMU in 1999, a leap in expectations since a week ago, according to financial prices monitored by JP Morgan. The probability assumed by the market of Britain joining Germany and France in the first wave of EMU jumped to 53 percent from 36 the previous week.
GERMANY, May 9 - Half of a sample of 1,200 eastern Germans want the single currency to be delayed and just six percent wanted the euro launched on time, a survey in the Saechsischer Zeitung newspaper showed on Friday. Hopes that the single currency would have beneficial effects also shrunk, with just 11 percent saying EMU would be positive for Germany -- down from 15 percent last December.
BRITAIN, May 8 - Just over half Britain's company finance directors would support British entry into a single European currency, a survey by recruitment firm Reed Accountancy Personnel showed. The poll found 52 percent of 200 finance directors supported membership of EMU, 38 percent were against joining and the remainder were undecided. About one-in-five said the UK should definitely join EMU while 31 percent said Britain should probably join. (The following news release was provided by IBCA)
EUROPE, May 7 - IBCA, the European credit rating agency, said it expected 10 countries to be included in the first wave. These comprise Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain. Those countries not participating immediately are likely to be Denmark, Greece, Italy, Sweden and the UK. However, given the policy stance of the new British government, IBCA said there was an increased probability that Britain would participate in EMU shortly after its start date.
SWEDEN, May 6 - Opposition to joining monetary union is falling, with every second Swede now supporting participation, according to a poll commissioned by JP Bank and daily Finanstidningen and carried out by pollster Sifo. The number of Swedes opposing EMU fell to 35 percent in May from 37 percent in an earlier poll in March. Of the 50 percent in favour of membership, 26 percent want Sweden to join from the start in 1999, up from 24 percent in March, while 24 percent want to wait, unchanged from the previous month. Fifteen percent were undecided in the May poll.
AUSTRIA, April 28 - Austrian dissatisfaction with the European Union is running at an all-time high at 64 percent, a survey showed on Monday, and only 34 percent of those polled saw more advantages from EU membership. Asked how they would vote were there a vote next Sunday, 62 percent of those polled said they would oppose EU membership while 36 percent would vote in favour, the survey conducted by the Austrian research institute Market said.
SWEDEN, April 25 - Most local activists of Sweden's minority ruling Social Democrats want Sweden to stay outside Europe's economic and monetary union (EMU) at its 1999 start to be able to see how it works, Dagens Industri newspaper said on Friday. A survey by the newspaper showed that 178 local Social Democratic representatives out of a total 350 thought Sweden should wait and see and possibly join EMU at a later stage.
FINLAND, April 24 - Eighty-four percent of Finnish companies want Finland to join the European economic and monetary union (EMU) quickly among the first countries, two leading industry lobbies said on Thursday. "As much as 84 percent (in a recent poll) favoured joining quickly, along with the first countries, 14 percent wanted a slower timetable and the rest said Finland should not join at all," the Confederation of Industry and Employers (TT) and the Central Chamber of Commerce (CCC) said in a joint statement. Ten percent wanted Finland to wait for Sweden's decision, they said.
-- London Polling Unit tel: +44 171 542 5223
				 email: polling.unit@rtrlondon.co.uk