AUCKLAND, Aug 11 - All Black number eight Zinzan Brooke described parts of South Africa's game as "close-to-the-bone stuff" in Saturday's 90-point Tri-Series rugby test at Eden Park, NZPA reports.
It was his way of describing their indiscriminate use of the boots, which left players like captain Sean Fitzpatrick and flanker Josh Kronfeld with cuts and bruises to their bodies.
Highly respected for his game, unmatched skills and sportsmanship, Brooke stopped short of accusing the Springboks of thuggery, saying some of the incidents were ugly and absolutely unnecessary.  
"You always expect a physical game against the South Africans but some of the stuff was right on edge, close to the bone stuff," Brooke said yesterday.
"Players concerned are better than that. They don't need to get into that sort of stuff. We try to respect them for who they are but it was pretty disappointing to see some of the things they were doing."
Brooke felt that lock Mark Andrews, one of the senior members of the South African team, should have been sent off for scraping and squeezing his boot sprigs on Kronfeld's back.  
Fitzpatrick, whose face and head were repeatedly stomped by Andrews and then by Andre Venter, who earned a sending off by Welsh referee Derek Bevan, did not react.
But he was angry when Kronfeld was unnecessarily and blatantly worked over by Andrews and told Springboks captain Gary Teichmann to tell his players to concentrate on rugby.
"I think things settled down a bit from then," said Fitzpatrick, who was playing his 90th test and his 50th as test captain.
Venter was suspended by a SANZAR judicial committee for three weeks yesterday.  
Springboks winger James Small was yellow-carded in the match for tripping Christian Cullen as the All Black fullback was scoring his second try in their 55-35, seven tries to five, win.
Fitzpatrick was shown little mercy by the South Africans at Ellis Park three weeks ago when he was caught on the wrong side of the ruck. Australia also targeted the hooker at the Melbourne Cricket Ground two weeks ago.
But he didn't think he was specifically sought out in games these days following accusations of the All Blacks using professional fouls.  
Brooke and centre Frank Bunce said Springboks coach Carel du Plessis's expression of satisfaction about his team's discipline and performance was as strange as Saturday's match.
"There's got to be something wrong when South Africa is content with a 20-point loss," Brooke said.
"They had 14 men in the second half, that changed the game a little. But I don't believe that any South African team would be happy with the 20-point margin and 55 points against them. It doesn't wash with me. Either he's (du Plessis) making it up or he's trying to save his own neck."  
Despite belting the South Africans with their biggest ever loss, points-wise and margin-wise, by an All Black side, the entire team expressed frustration and disappointment for not being more clinical, particularly as the occasion had presented them a grand chance.
The Springboks scored two opportunist tries in the first half through Teichmann and Percy Montgomery and the All Blacks uncharacteristically allowed them through for two more, by Joost van der Westhuizen and Pieter Rossouw, after New Zealand had hit 50 points.  
"Those tries should never have happened. We made mistakes that we don't even allow at training and that's why the guys were a bit disappointed in the dressing room. We had the foot on the throat but we didn't strangle the life out of them," Bunce said.
Brooke described the All Blacks' performance as sitting back with a loaded gun and not firing when they should have.
"I was frustrated a bit because it was the perfect stage to create a wonderful opportunity for absolute rugby. You talk about the great ground, the great crowd and atmosphere, the great weather, you talk about the preparations and no injuries  
-- everything was right but the real mongrel wasn't there, that killer instinct was missing.
"The only thing we didn't do was pull the trigger. It was a funny game."
However, Bunce, who played his 50th test for New Zealand, and Brooke said it was extremely satisfying that some of the moves the team had hatched at training resulted in tries.
Alama Ieremia, Cullen and Carlos Spencer, who scored 25 points then allowed Andrew Mehrtens game time, crossed for the first half tries which put the All Blacks into a 23-21 lead.  
Cullen, Justin Marshall, Taine Randell and Tana Umaga scored the second half five-pointers.