Thailand's potential creditors gathered for preliminary talks in Tokyo on Sunday to hammer out an aid package of up to $15 billion to help shore up the ailing tiger-economy.
A Thai finance ministry official said that he was optimistic about the outcome of Monday's meeting between Thailand, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and mostly Asian governments.
"The meetings (on Monday) are expected to be concluded successfully," Nibhat Bhukkansut, comptroller general of the Thai Ministry of Finance, told Reuters on Sunday.
Thai finance minister Thanong Bidaya arrived in Tokyo for the talks on Sunday evening, but declined to comment to reporters here.
Before he boarded his plane for Tokyo, he told reporters in Bangkok : "I don't know how much we will get, but we will need at least $10 billion in standby credit."
Other Thai finance ministry sources have said it is seeking $12 billion to $15 billion in international loans, making the package the biggest funding scheme for a single country since the $40 billion which went to Mexico in 1995.
The IMF called for the Monday meeting to discuss how best to provide loans to resolve economic problems triggered after Thailand was forced to devalue the baht currency last month.
Bangkok has already announced a string of measures to cope with the crisis, including closing many financial institutions and raising value added tax.
Another Thai finance ministry source said in Bangkok on Sunday that an assistance package is likely to be concluded on Friday, before being submitted for IMF approval on August 21.
"After the discussion on Monday the package is likely to be concluded and signed on August 15 before going to the IMF board for consideration on August 21," the source said, adding that if the IMF approves the package, the agreement will be signed.
"We want to try our best to see results from this meeting," an international monetary source in Japan who is involved in the talks told Reuters on Sunday.
But the source added that the haste in which the meeting was called has left little time for prior coordination among the various participants, and it was not certain whether the group would unveil a specific breakdown of figures on Monday.
"There will probably be a lot of bilateral meetings going on on the sidelines," the source said.
In addition to Japan and the IMF, officials from the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank are expected to attend the meeting along with representatives of China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, South Korea, Australia and the United States.
Last week, a Thai finance ministry source said that Thailand was likely to borrow $7 billion from Japan's Export-Import Bank, $4 billion from the IMF, $1 billion from the World Bank, and another $1 billion from the ADB.
U.S. officials in Washington have made clear that the U.S. will not participate directly in a Thai bailout -- in stark contrast to the Mexico rescue plan, which was heavily U.S.-funded.
But they say the United States will back an IMF lending programme, provided it is supported by appropriate policies.
On Saturday, U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers said that while Washington was ready to support a Thai rescue package, the country needed to reform its financial system, lift capital controls and improve transparency.
"We are obviously concerned with the economic and financial situation generally and that is why we have said we are prepared to support extraordinary (IMF) access for Thailand if and when an appropriate programme is agreed," Summers told reporters.
"The crucial elements of such a programme are of course strong fiscal adjustment, measures to reform the financial system and remove capital controls and achieve greatly improved transparency in economic management."
U.S. Treasury official Timothy Geithner is here to attend the Tokyo meeting, but has declined to comment on the possible outcome of the talks or on the results of meetings he has been holding in Bangkok.
Japan's delegate to the talks, vice finance minister for international affairs Eisuke Sakakibara, arrived at the Tokyo hotel on Sunday evening where a preliminary meeting between Thai officials, the IMF and Asian officials were taking place, but also declined to comment to reporters.
The official meeting begins at 1000 a.m. (0100 GMT) on Monday and a news conference is scheduled later that afternoon.
Japan, keen to justify its position as Asia's top economy, has said it is ready to play a leading role alongside the IMF in the planned rescue package.
A senior Japanese Finance Ministry official said Tokyo's contribution to the package would be by far the largest by an individual country and would probably amount to a little under half the total amount.
"Given the magnitude of relations between Japan and Thailand, it is natural for Japan to extend the largest amount of financial help to the country," the official said.