Those following the latest, and biggest phase of Russian privatisation may be forgiven for thinking they had stumbled across a lost chapter from "Alice in Wonderland".
In a particularly surreal phase of the largest peacetime handover of property ever, July's sale of a quarter of telecom giant Svyazinvest provoked an unprecedented storm of media protest, apparently orchestrated by losers in the tender.
Despite the media mud slinging, the winner was the highest bidder and officials called the sale Russia's fairest so far.
Since then Russian media have reported that the Federal Service for Currency and Export Control (FSCEC), one of several bodies examining the sale, had ruled it out of order, implying that all the money paid for Svyazinvest so far would be forfeit to the state. The FSCEC says its routine investigation is continuing.
Just as sensational were events surrounding the auction of a controlling stake in Russia's biggest mining company, the nickel and precious metals mammoth Norilsk Nickel .
Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin tried to block the sale, throwing the whole privatisation programme into temporary chaos.
The official Rossiiskiye Vesti newspaper actually published a front page story saying the deal had been cancelled...the day after it has been sealed.
An investigation into its legality has since cleared the Norilsk auction, but the fact that the tender organiser was also an affiliate of the eventual winner of the 38 percent stake lingers in the minds of many Russia watchers.
In the background was international financier George Soros, grinning like the Cheshire cat at the attempts of Russian reformers to keep economic reform on course.
He forked up around half the price of the Svyazinvest stake, only to disappear into the mist again, apparently changing his mind after earlier interest in the planned Rosneft oil firm sell-off.
Also in on the disappearing act was privatisation boss Alfred Kokh, whose resignation on Wednesday added yet another twist of uncertainty to the tale.
SALE SEEN AS TURNING POINT
Western onlookers hailed the Svyazinvest sale, the biggest single Russian privatisation deal ever, as the turning point from which the world of smoke and mirrors, closed deals and questionable prices could never return.
But despite signs that privatisation may be getting fairer, it is highly likely that the Mad Hatter has plenty of surprises up his sleeve for the next leg of the great bonanza. The end of Russia's rocky road to market economy is not in sight.
The "big three" series of state auctions got under way with 40 percent of the Tyumen Oil Company (TNK), Russia's sixth largest oil firm -- a sale with its own healthy dose of intrigue.
Russia's powerful conglomerate Alfa-Group won the stake after paying $810 million in the investment tender.
On the plus side, Alfa made the highest bid, and analysts even agreed the price was not ludicrously cheap.
But fierce opposition to the sale from Viktor Pali, head of TNK's main production unit, Nizhnevartovskneftegaz , suggested something was amiss. He said Alfa-Group had stakes in TNK assets already, giving them the edge in the tender.
Alfa wants to take a controlling stake in the oil group by bidding for more than 10 percent of TNK shares in a special cash auction, originally scheduled for late September.
But the sale has been postponed indefinitely, and one theory is that the three recent mega-deals, including that of TNK, have drained Russia's nascent banking community of cash.
In a sign that Alfa's victory in the tender has not spelt the end of the troubled oil producer's short post-Soviet history, shareholders suspended the company's board of directors on August 4.
SVYAZINVEST - THE BIGGEST, THE BEST...AND THE UGLIEST
Rumblings from TNK's privatisation erupted into scandal a week later when an international consortium led by Russia's Uneximbank paid $1.875 billion for a 25 percent-plus-one share in telecoms holding company Svyazinvest.
Among the winning bidders were Soros, the U.S. financier with the Midas touch, and Vladimir Potanin, head of Uneximbank, former first deputy prime minister and one of an elite banking clique once united behind re-electing President Boris Yeltsin last year. That unity has recently shown signs of breaking.
Rival tycoons Boris Berezovsky and Vladimir Gusinsky, both said to be part of the losing Svyazinvest bidders, launched a bitter attack against Uneximbank through their media interests, painting the deal as a shady deal between state and financier.
Western investors dismissed the rumpus in turn, calling it sour grapes on the part of the losers, who up until now had relied on close Kremlin links to get what they wanted.
Potanin's position at the top of the banking heap was confirmed last week, when Uneximbank again emerged victorious, this time in the sale of a controlling 38 percent stake in Norilsk Nickel.
Any other outcome would have come as a shock to Moscow's financial community. It had long assumed Uneximbank would win the tender, having had control of the stake for nearly two years in a shares-for-loans swap with the state in late 1995.
It would be hard to defend the last big privatisation as competitive or fair.
Foreigners were banned, despite a high-profile attack on the terms of the tender by the British commodity powerhouse Trans-World group, which is already a major force in Russia The three controversial auctions have set the tone for the next big round of sell-offs scheduled for the autumn, and the breakdown in the banking brotherhood promises to be crucial.
The next big tussle will be the sale of 51 percent of Rosneft, pencilled in for September.
The auction pits Berezovsky, known to have his eye on the company, against Potanin once again -- Uneximbank has said it is interested in bidding for a stake.
In an interview with the Financial Times, Potanin predicted Rosneft would be the most fiercely contested privatisation yet.
Analysts are also predicting a tense tussle in the tender for another 24 percent of Svyazinvest, due to raises in the rest of 1997, the battered government can draw some comfort -- it will probably raise around $6 billion this year alone.