Digital technology is about to catapault radio, the oldest broadcasting medium, into a a new era of CD-quality sound and extra programme choice.
While the media world has been buzzing with talk of hundreds of digital TV channels, the radio industry has been quietly gearing up for a revolution of its own.
Digital Audio Broadcasting (DAB) services have been piloted in 13 European nations including Britain, France and Germany and the technology is also on trial in Canada and Australia.
About 100 million Europeans are expected to be within reach of DAB coverage by the end of the year. However, only the privileged few who have access to prototype digital receivers can actually hear the services.
But all that is set to change.
A dozen manufacturers are developing digital radio receivers for the consumer market. These sets will go on display at the International Broadcast Exhibition trade show in Berlin at the end of August.
"We can be sure that in the first half of 1998, DAB receivers will be available anywhere where there is a regular service," said David Witherow, a former BBC World Service executive who heads the World DAB Forum, a body grouping manufacturers, broadcasters and regulators.
Witherow said the first receivers, some of which could have small colour screens to display data, will be expensive and mainly sold as car radios.
But he is optimistic about a relatively swift take-up  in Britain, where 12 million radio receivers are sold each year, many in cars or as part of hi-fi systems.
"We're saying that within 10 years we should have 40-50 percent penetration of homes," he said.
WHAT DOES DAB MEAN FOR THE LISTENER?
Like digital television, DAB means better quality reception and an enhanced range of services.
DAB eliminates many of the shortcomings of analogue radio broadcasting, which relies on technology first developed around 100 years ago.
Existing radio technology uses electronic circuits to mimic sounds directly from the radio studio.
DAB instead translates sounds into a series of ones and noughts before they are "read" and converted back to their original form by the radio receiver.
The result is that DAB does not suffer the fading and distortion of AM broadcasts or the interference which irritates FM listeners. It also removes the need for drivers to retune FM radios as they move between regions.
But DAB's most revolutionary feature is the ability to carry text, data and even pictures.
Radio stations could broadcast background information or advertising linked to the song they were playing or text and graphics to illustrate speech-based programmes.
    There will also be scope to transmit stand-alone data   services such as
stock market prices or sports scores.
The BBC has been pioneering DAB, spending 10 million pounds ($16.9 million) on installing a number of new digital transmitters which allow DAB to cover 60 percent of the population.
The corporation has been broadcasting its five national radio stations in digital format since September 1995. It is also experimenting with new programming to exploit the extra capacity digital brings.
Niche BBC stations dedicated to genres such as country music or opera are among the possible options while extra sports commentaries and live coverage of parliament have also been tested.
DEVELOPMENT OF COMMERCIAL DAB SERVICES IN BRITAIN
The British government has allocated seven frequency blocks for DAB, each capable of carrying between six and nine channels.
One will be used for the BBC national network, one for national commercial services and the remaining five for local radio.
Britain's Radio Authority, the body which regulates and licences the commercial sector, plans to advertise licences to operate new digital commercial services next year and expects them to go on air by mid-1999.
"The aim is to get a commercial DAB service to as many people as quickly as possible," said Tony Stoller, the Radio Authority's chief executive.
Stoller said it was a tough call for commercial radio operators to decide whether to gamble development funds on DAB, with a pay-off perhaps some years off, or focus on their existing activities in a thriving sector.
"Digital radio may need a programme driver to get it off the ground in the way that subscription television needed movies and sports," he said.
Stoller suggested that live commentaries of cricket matches might prove one such driver if the BBC, as rumoured, decided to axe its long-running "Test Match Special" show.
Capital Radio, one of Britain's leading commercial radio groups, has shown its faith in a digital future through its planned 87 million pound acquisition of Richard Branson's Virgin Radio.
Virgin operates one of only three national commercial stations in Britain and has been guaranteed a slot on the DAB national network. Capital cited the advent of digital as part of the rationale behind the Virgin deal.
Capital managing director David Mansfield said digital would transform the outlook for AM services, like Virgin's national rock music station.
"The big advantage of digital is the improvement to AM services. Music and (current) AM are just not a winning combination," he said. ($ = 0.592 British Pounds)