Air cargo rates from Sweden were mostly steady as the market emerged from its quieter summer holiday season but market players were bracing for a wave of rate increases this autumn.
"I'm afraid that maybe at the end of October or the beginning of November there could be a bit of an increase, especially to the Far East. They are talking about it," said Par Wahlstedt, manager of sales agents United Air Service AB.
Freight forwarders and airlines agreed Swedish exports were booming and expected the heavy volumes to continue.
"Load factors look good from Sweden and Frankfurt considering that it's August. We are expecting high demand this autumn," Lars Gurfeldt, spokesman for Lufthansa Cargo northern Europe, told Reuters.
Gosta Lokrantz, Swissair cargo manager Sweden, said the busiest routes were the Far East -- especially Hong Kong, Singapore, Tokyo -- and Bombay.
"Business is booming in Sweden regarding exports and the trend is up," he said.
Players said behind busy traffic volumes was a general upturn in the Swedish economy and the starting up of export companies following the summer break.
"It looks like it will be a long hot autumn, Swedish export companies have good order stock right now," a forwarder said.
Many forwarders said orders were starting to flow again in the past week. Swedish companies traditionally take their holiday in July.
"It was down a bit in July but in the last two weeks it has started again," Wahlstedt said.
The market was abuzz with rumours about rate increases.
Players suspected Scandianvian flag-carrier SAS of planning one, but the airline would not comment on the rumours. The airline's cargo management began a two-day meeting on Thursday.
Lufthansa Cargo AG said it would meet next week to consider air cargo rate increases from the Scandinavian market and hinted that the market was busy enough to support a rise.
"We have meetings next week when we will evaluate the whole thing. We expect to have a clearer picture the last week in August on what routes there will be rate increases," Gurfeldt told Reuters.
Peer Skriver Hansen, manager Scandinavia and Finland for Swissair cargo, said the airline was considering rate increases and was waiting for a cue from other players, especially Dutch airline KLM and Lufthansa.
"We will look into what the market does and will look into getting something between three and five percent. We're still in the investigation stage," Hansen told Reuters.
Anders Uddman, British Airways World Cargo, said it was too early to tell if conditions were right for a rate increase.
"Everybody has to get their feet under their desks again and see how business goes. The forecast for the autumn is that exports would increase because of the strong dollar, but now it's coming down a bit," he said.
At least one forwarder was sceptical of a rate hike by SAS being successful.
"I doubt if they could manage to do it. SAS is not the market leader right now and they are quite expensive. I think they wouldn't dare to increase because they would definitely lose business," the forwarder said.
Players said there was still ample capacity to the United States even though SAS cancelled its Gothenburg-New York cargo flights this summer, as it had done in 1996.
The airline has said it would permanently suspend its freighter operation to New York from mid-August and fly three times to the Far East instead of twice from Gothenburg, on Sweden's west coast.
The average market rates for a 100 kg shipment from Stockholm to New York were unchanged at 9.98 crowns per kg. To Chicago they rose marginally to 10.71 from 10.63 crowns at the time of the last market report on July 14.
To Los Angeles rates were flat at 11.76 crowns.
Ericsson telecoms equipment continued to fill aircraft holds to the Far East, which airlines and forwarders agreed was the key destination from Sweden.
The rate to Hong Kong was still 12.91 crowns. To Singapore it eased to 12.69 crowns from 12.88 crowns.
"There is a very small difference between various airlines in terms of rates to the Far East. If you go with Malaysian or some of the smaller airlines the rate might be a bit lower," Wahlstedt said.
The rate to Tokyo edged down to 18.45 crowns from 18.75.
SAS cargo had a 400 kg shipment to Tokyo, but it was not a problem to find space, a source said.
South Korean air carrier Asiana Airlines, which launched non-stop flights from Europe and began regular trucks from the Nordic region to the meet them, was undercutting other carriers to attract new business, Wahlstedt said.
"We are getting quite good rates with Asiana because they are trying to break into the market. Korea has grown for us," he said.
The rate to Bangkok fell to 12.61 crowns from 12.86. The rate to Shanghai was unchanged at 15.63 crowns.
Capacity to Australia and New Zealand was scarce.
"To Australia and New Zealand it's always fully booked. You must book normally a week in advance to get space," one forwarder said.
"Australia is picking up right now. We are having quite a time with space from Singapore to Sydney and Auckland as well," said Singapore Airlines sales representative Angelita Ahlin.
She said the airline was flying Ericsson telecoms, Pharmacia & Upjohn's anti-smoking aid Nicorette and a mix of products from drug company Astra there.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1003