Russian security chief Alexander Lebed arrived in Chechnya on Wednesday and vowed to lift the threat of bombardment hanging over Grozny. But Russian forces had already begun pounding the rebel-held city.
Civilians trapped in the Chechen capital pleaded for help from the outside world as Russian planes flew over.
The huge explosions heard in their wake seemed to signal the start of long-expected air raids to drive out the guerrillas who captured the city more than two weeks ago.
By the time Lebed flew into the military airport east of Grozny in the late afternoon, the crashes coming from the city and audible in the nearby village of Alkhan-Yurt had died down.
Lebed said he had "come with peace". Later he said he would settle the problem of the army ultimatum by Thursday morning, when the deadline was due to expire.
"We will no longer speak in the language of ultimatums," he was quoted as saying by Tass.
The Russian military command gave civilians 48 hours from Tuesday morning to quit Grozny before the assault started.
Russian news agencies said Lebed met the Russian commander, Vyacheslav Tikhovmirov, and was due to head 20 km (12 miles) south to the village of Novye Atagi, where rebel chief-of-staff Aslan Maskhadov was waiting for him.
Much of Grozny is in ruins from fighting at the start of Moscow's 20-month campaign to crush Chechnya's independence bid.
A second devastation seemed imminent after the military threat.
Yet Defence Minister Igor Rodionov, a Lebed ally, dismissed the ultimatum issued by Tikhomirov's deputy while his chief was on holiday. General Konstantin Pulikovsky had been reprimanded for his actions, Rodionov said in the southern city of Volgograd.
The comments highlighted apparent confusion over policy in the breakaway province in the absence of President Boris Yeltsin. Aides said he was taking a short break in the lakelands of northwest Russia and Interfax news agency said he would be back in Moscow on Wednesday and in the Kremlin on Thursady.
The military in Chechnya, humiliated by the separatists' August 6 attack on Grozny and subsequent fierce fighting in which hundreds were killed, seems determined to use whatever it takes to crush the guerrillas' resistance.
RIA news agency, quoting the head of the military prosecutor's office in Chechnya, said 420 Russian servicemen had been killed and 1,300 had been wounded in the latest fighting for the control of Grozny, once a city of 400,000 people.
Civilians trapped in cellars, fearing carpet bombing from Russian forces, pleaded for help from the outside world and said they felt they had been abandoned in their own country.
"Our houses are bombarded continuously from heavy weaponry. We are in a desperate state, without bread, water, or light. There are no fighters in our houses, no soldiers, and no one is firing from them, but the bombardment never stops," said a handwritten appeal, passed on by a Chechen refugee.
"We are living in uncertainty and confusion, we feel that we have been abandoned in our own country. We ask that you do everything possible to stop this war."
The International Committee of the Red Cross urged Russia on Wednesday to extend an ultimatum for civilians to quit Grozny, saying that the 48-hour deadline set on Monday did not give people time enough to leave.
The ICRC said in a statement that an estimated 60,000 people left the Chechen capital late last week and a further 70,000 fled on Tuesday. But about 120,000 remained.
The United States, Germany and France condemned the threat of bombing and urged Russia to halt its Chechnya campaign.
The Moslem world's largest organisation called for Moscow to refrain from the use of force and to seek a political agreement to settle the crisis.
A statement by the 51-member Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC) said the group's Secretary-General Hamid Algabid "expressed serious concern and anguish over the ultimatum issued by the Russian military authorities followed by a threat to use all possible means against...Grozny."
The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which has pulled its mission out of Grozny, also called for a peaceful settlement.