Spanish opera diva Montserrat Caballe is unequivocal about the kind of person she is.
"I am a Mediterranean woman," she states, proudly, firmly. "I am very, very domestic, in my music, in my family."
Caballe enthuses in the manner of a true Mediterrannean matriarch about her daughter, Montsita, who began to sing five years ago after an accident robbed her of a ballet career, and her husband, whom she met when both starred in Madame Butterfly.
"I have only two (children)," she wistfully told reporters before a recital in Istanbul. A career prohibited more. But family is entwined with career. Brother Carlos is her manager.
Fluttering a black fan as she spoke -- in a quirky cocktail of English, Spanish and German -- the amply proportioned Catalan, 63, insists she must sing some Spanish at each recital.
"Wherever I go I sing Spanish. This is one of my...how do you say?...prides, to bring the music of my country to others."
Her aura is enhanced by her generous size, which she seems to take pride in. An image consultant once reportedly advised Caballe to slim: "No, I think I shall eat more," she replied.
Brought up in poverty during the Spanish Civil War, Caballe doggedly struggled on through years of musical study plagued with money crises. The financial situation improved with her career, but in later life she has had to struggle with a series of health problems, including brain tumours and heart complaints.
She got her first big break when she took the stage as a last-minute replacement for the leading role in Donizetti's Lucrezia Borgia at Carnegie Hall in New York in 1965.
Since her professional debut in 1956, she has given almost 4,000 performances. The revered soprano Maria Callas -- who had tipped Caballe as her successor -- only managed 600.
Her career has taken in the world's leading opera houses and performances with the top tenors of her time, including Placido Domingo, Jose Carreras and Luciano Pavarotti.
"They are my three tenors," Caballe said. "I have done all my career with those three." She was instrumental in the development of the younger Carreras, also Barcelona-born.
"And wasn't it worth it?" she said, amid a fit of jovial laughter that became familiar by the end of the interview.
But ask Caballe about the most triumphant moment of her illustrious career, she says: "The day I was kissing my (future) husband in Butterfly in the finale of the first act."
Caballe, then 30, went on to marry tenor Bernabe Martl.
When they can, Caballe and her family retreat to a farm in the foothills of the Pyrenees, where they live with seven dogs.
Under the auspices of a foundation she set up in 1971, Caballe often hosts mentally handicapped children at the farm.
A keen supporter of humanitarian causes, she belongs to UNICEF, the International Red Cross, and UNESCO: "Many of these other (people), they do not have a chance like us to have a home...we have to work for them."
Caballe also paints, although she says she does it "very badly." Yet painter Joan Miro once bought a painting of hers, now knowing it belonged to the diva.
At an age when most singers begin to wind down their careers, Caballe began to enhance her repertoire with pop music.
She recorded the chart-topping "Barcelona" with the late Freddy Mercury of the rock band Queen, to promote the 1992 Olympics. She was much saddened by Mercury's AIDS-related death in 1991 and praised him for bearing his illness with dignity.
And this month she recorded Christmas songs with her daughter, a children's choir and Spanish flamenco duo Los del Rio, who topped the charts with the catchy hit "Macarena."
Caballe defends herself against critics who say such excursions into the pop world serve to "vulgarise" opera.
"(Singing with pop stars) is a good way to make people listen to something they have never heard before, then they can decide 'I like it, I want to go to the opera,'" she said.
Caballe's introduction to opera came when she was young, and again Madame Butterfly provided the memorable moment. She hummed along with an aria from Puccini's opera at a Christmas concert for parents at the age of eight: "It was very bad, but it was an attempt."
She was then sent to music school, and fame crept up on her.
"(Famous?) That you never feel! You dream...and it is always a wonder the dream comes true. You never think, I want to be famous, I want to make a career, you want to sing, that's all."
Caballe would not like her daughter to lead a similar life.
"It is a life of dedication, you cannot do only a quarter or a half, you have to do it with intensity. It is very difficult to have a normal life and a career.
"You are most of the time lonely, alone all over the world. I did not have, like other mothers, the happiness to be with my children. I do not feel guilty...But I am very, very sad.
"I cannot be with my husband - we are now 33 years married and sometimes we think, how much have we been together?"

