The NBA's big games were on the West Coast Wednesday, as the Los Angeles Lakers, without Shaquille O'Neal, beat Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls, and the Utah Jazz defeated the SuperSonics, to Seattle coach George Karl's despair.
Elden Campbell, playing centre in place of the injured O'Neal, responded with a career-high 34 points as the Lakers snapped the Bulls' eight-game winning streak 106-90 in a battle of division leaders.
Campbell grabbed 14 rebounds and Nick Van Exel had 24 points, 13 assists and eight rebounds for Los Angeles, which won for the seventh time in eight games and increased its Pacific Division lead to 2 1/2 games over Seattle.
"First of all, I was getting the ball everytime down the court," Campbell said. "They were trying to play me one-on-one. Any decent post player in the league, if you play him one-on-one, is going to get a lot of good looks and he's going to score."
Eddie Jones scored 18 points and Robert Horry added 15, seven rebounds and three blocks for the Lakers, who improved to 21-4 at home.
O'Neal, the league's third-leading scorer and fourth-leading rebounder, will miss at least the next week, including Sunday's All-Star Game, due to a knee sprain.
"The big key to the game was that the guys played the Laker game as if Shaq was there," Lakers coach Del Harris said. "It was just that Shaq was number 41 tonight and played like he was number 34. Everybody else played their game."
Jordan scored 27 points and Scottie Pippen added 22 and nine assists for Chicago, which still owns the league's best record at 42-6 and the league's best road mark at 21-5. The Bulls completed their six-game road trip at 5-1.
"Elden Campbell came in and we couldn't stop him," said Jordan.
Chicago finished 9-2 without suspended forward Dennis Rodman, who will return following the All-Star break from his suspension for kicking a television cameraman.
The Bulls, who beat the Lakers in overtime at home in December, had won the last three meetings. The 16-point loss matched the worst of the season for Chicago.
In Seattle, Karl Malone scored 26 points as the Jazz beat the SuperSonics for the third time this season, 99-95.
Greg Ostertag had 19 points and 10 rebounds and Jeff Hornacek added 14 points for Utah, which is undefeated against Seattle this season after losing to the SuperSonics in seven games in last season's Western Conference finals.
The Jazz have won seven of their last eight to take a one-game lead over Houston in the Midwest Division.
Shawn Kemp scored 23 points, Gary Payton added 22 and Detlef Schrempf had 19 for Seattle, 0-7 against conference powers Utah, Houston and the Lakers.
The SuperSonics dropped to 18-7 at home after losing in Key Arena just three times last season, and have lost four of their last six games.
"The thing I hate about my basketball team more than anything is that they're not good teammates to one another," Karl said.
"I think we have too much judgment, too much finger-pointing and too much bickering. Last year, we were happy and camaraderie was good and our belief was good.
"You're going to play many close games in the NBA and there are many nights that you win because of belief and trust. We're snake-bit a little bit. We just lack a little bit of confidence at times and other times, we just don't stay together."
In Boston, Voshon Lenard scored a career-high 28 points and Tim Hardaway added 23 and a season-high 15 assists to lead the Miami Heat to their first season sweep of the Celtics with a 118-117 come-from-behind victory.
Alonzo Mourning recorded 21 points and 11 rebounds for the Heat, who have won five straight and 10 of their last 12.
Miami increased its lead over the Knicks to two games atop the Atlantic Division.
Rick Fox tied his career high with 33 points and Eric Williams tied his season high with 27 for the Celtics, who have lost nine of their last 11 games.
In Denver, Dale Ellis made a jumper with 11 seconds left to lift the Nuggets to a 106-104 victory over the Washington Bullets and spoil the NBA coaching debut of Bob Staak.
Staak, a Bullets assistant, replaced the fired Jimmy Lynam on an interim basis.
In Toronto, Walt Williams scored 26 points, Damon Stoudamire added 19 and 10 assists and Clifford Rozier had a season-high 19 points and nine rebounds as the Raptors held the struggling Cleveland Cavaliers to one basket over a 12-minute stretch of the fourth quarter of an 89-84 victory.
In Philadelphia, rookie Allen Iverson scored 25 points and Jerry Stackhouse added 22 as the 76ers won for the third time in four games, 113-97 victory over the San Antonio Spurs.
In Phoenix, Cedric Ceballos scored 19 points and Wesley Person 18 as the Suns beat the road-weary Atlanta Hawks 99-81.