Matches scheduled for this weekend in the English premier league (kick-off times 1500 GMT Saturday unless stated, league positions in parentheses):
Blackburn Rovers (12) v Aston Villa (7)
Blackburn, beaten 2-1 at Middlesbrough in midweek, may recall striker Chris Sutton for Dane Per Pedersen who limped off in that game.
Villa coach Brian Little has Ireland defender Steve Staunton available after an ankle injury while England defender Gareth Southgate remains doubtful with a similar injury.
Coventry City (17) v West Ham United (16)
Coventry are looking for their first home win of 1997 against fellow strugglers West Ham. Without a win in seven games, they welcome back Noel Whelan and Paul Williams from suspension but still miss long-term injury victim John Salako.
West Ham have the worst away record in the premier league, with only one win in 15 matches, but they are unbeaten in their last three. Coach Harry Redknapp will be without midfielder Michael Hughes who is suspended and Frank Lampard (broken leg) but Ian Bishop will play despite a broken nose. Croatian international Slaven Bilic is doubtful with a thigh injury.
Derby County (14) v Tottenham Hotspur (10)
Derby, hoping to stop their slide by recording their first win in three games, are boosted by the return of striker Dean Sturridge after suspension. But Dutch forward Ron Willems picked up a head injury in their 1-0 defeat at Everton last Saturday and is out. Croatian international defender Igor Stimac and Dutch midfielder Robin van der Laan are expected to recover from fibia and instep injuries.
Tottenham, unbeaten in three games, have doubts over Darren Anderton (hamstring). David Howells is out with a back injury sustained in the 1-1 draw at Leicester in midweek and defender Clive Wilson is out with an ankle injury.
Everton (13) v Manchester United (1)
Everton won for the first time in five matches against Derby last Saturday and need to build on that result to secure safety. They will be without Claus Thomsen, who injured an ankle celebrating a goal last weekend, but expect Irish defender Terry Phelan (thigh) and Joe Parkinson (bruised buttock) to return. Welsh midfielder Gary Speed is available after a ban.
Manchester United, fresh from their European Cup success in midweek, seek to overcome post-Porto fatigue and pull away at the top of the premier league with rivals Liverpool and Arsenal not playing until Monday. They have lost only once in 18 league games and expect to be without Welsh international Ryan Giggs (hamstring). Andy Cole may be fit.
Middlesbrough (19) v Chelsea (5)
Middlesbrough's 2-1 midweek win over Blackburn lifted them off the bottom for the first time in more than two-and-a-half months. After winning their last three games, they are without midfielder Robbie Mustoe (thigh) and Fabrizio Ravanelli, who pulled a hamstring against Blackburn.
Chelsea, who could qualify for Europe through the league and F.A. Cup, have scored 11 goals in four games and face the team they could meet in the F.A. Cup final, if both teams win their semifinals.
Player-coach Ruud Gullit continues to instruct from the sidelines after an ankle injury ruled him out for the season, while goalkeeper Kevin Hitchcock (shoulder) and French defender Frank Leboeuf (thigh) are still out. Midfielder Scott Minto returns after suspension.
Sheffield Wednesday (6) v Leeds United (9)
Sheffield Wednesday's 2-0 defeat at Manchester United last Saturday was their first in eight league matches but they are still on course for a European place. They are strengthened by the return of Welsh midfielder Mark Pembridge from suspension but have defender Peter Atherton serving a ban and Steve Nicol struggling with a chest infection.
Ghanaian striker Tony Yeboah, who hurled his shirt towards Leeds manager George Graham after being substituted last Saturday, could be dropped. Defender John Pemberton returned in a reserve game after an 11-month absence with a knee injury and striker Brian Deane is hopeful of playing after an ankle injury.
Southampton (20) v Leicester City (11)
Southampton are in desperate trouble after replacing Middlesbrough on the bottom. They have won only twice in 10 league games and are without long-term injury victims, midfielder Barry Venison (back) and Jason Dodd (knee), while Norwegian defender Claus Lundekvam is also doubtful.
Leicester, with four defeats in their last 11 league games, could be without American goalkeeper Kasey Keller who is still on international duty.
    Sunderland (15) v Nottingham Forest (18)     
Sunderland have slumped into relegation trouble with only two wins in 10 league games, both at Roker Park, but they beat Forest 4-1 at the beginning of the season. Former England midfielder Chris Waddle will make his Sunderland debut following a 75,000-pound ($119,000) move from first division Bradford City but they will miss defender Andy Melville (Achilles tendon). Midfielders Steve Agnew (wrist), Paul Bracewell (groin) and striker Martin Smith (calf) are doubtful.
Forest, boosted by a 1-1 draw with Liverpool last week, could give midfielder Brian O'Neil his debut after joining on a month's loan from Celtic. Nigel Clough returned to Manchester City after a three-month loan but defender Colin Cooper returns from suspension.
Wimbledon (8) v Newcastle (4) (Sunday 1600 GMT)
Wimbledon have not lost any of their last six home matches against Newcastle and are desperate to improve on their form of one win in 10 league games. Defender Ben Thatcher is out with an ankle injury but is expected to return for the reserves next month.
Newcastle have only the league to concentrate on after their 3-0 (4-0 aggregate) defeat by Monaco in the UEFA Cup. They are still without England captain Alan Shearer (groin) but strike partner Les Ferdinand will have a fitness test on a hamstring injury.
Colombian striker Faustino Asprilla (ankle) and defender Darren Peacock (knee) are both expected to play.
Arsenal (3) v Liverpool (2) (Monday 2000 GMT)
Both these teams have won the championship during  the 1990s but have struggled to break Manchester United's domination since 1992. Arsenal goalkeeper David Seaman is back in training after a knee operation and Lee Harper is set to continue. Midfielder Paul Merson (hernia) is out for about five weeks but striker Ian Wright and defenders Lee Dixon and Steve Bould return from suspension.
Liverpool, with only one defeat in eight, are hot on Manchester United's heels and will be buoyed by reaching their first European competition semifinal since 1985 in the Cup Winners' Cup. Defender Bjorn Tore Kvarme could return after being cup-tied for the 3-0 (4-1 aggregate) win against SK Brann Bergen on Thursday.
Middlesbrough v Nottingham Forest (Monday 1945 GMT)
These teams played each other earlier in the season and drew 1-1 but are now playing for survival in this relegation clash.