In a big win for the tobacco industry after a series of setbacks, a Florida jury Monday cleared R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. of responsibility for the death of a smoker who died of lung cancer.
The jury deliberated for eight hours over two days before deciding Reynolds had neither acted negligently nor made a dangerous, defective product that caused the death of Jean Connor, who smoked heavily from the time she was a teenager and died of lung cancer in October 1995 at age 49.
The verdict came as cigarette makers and state officials resumed talks aimed at settling litigation against the industry and resolving other issues, though state attorneys general said the verdict would not affect the talks.
"We're obviously very pleased with this outcome," Reynolds' attorney Paul Crist said after the verdict was announced. "Our confidence in the jury system has been reinforced."
Plaintiff Dana Raulerson, who filed the wrongful death lawsuit after her sister died, was stunned by the verdict but said it had not changed her feeling that the tobacco industry was peddling a "legal killer."
"It's like watching her (Connor) die all over again. And there's still an industry that doesn't care she's dead because of their product," she said. "I don't know how they sleep at night."
With the verdict, Reynolds, a unit of RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp., dodged the bullet of punitive damages. Had the jury found Reynolds negligent and awarded punitive damages, it would have marked the first time such an award had been made in any U.S. tobacco litigation case.
Melissa Ronan, a lawyer with Litigation Analysis for Wall Street, a company that advises investment firms, said the verdict would help even the odds for the industry in settlement talks after several serious setbacks.
But Massachusetts Attorney General Scott Harshbarger, an outspoken industry critic, said the verdict was not a major setback and that state officials would continue their efforts.
"For Big Tobacco, this is just one victory in a losing battle. This verdict bears absolutely no relevance to the pending state lawsuits, which are not based on the claims of individuals. In short, the industry still has us to worry about."
A federal judge in Greensboro, N.C., ruled last month that the Food and Drug Administration could regulate tobacco as a drug. That ruling came after the Liggett Group broke industry ranks and agreed to settle litigation with about 20 states and conceded the negative health effects of cigarette smoke.
"This brings things back more even," Ronan said. "After the FDA ruling, many people thought the industry was going to have to make all kinds of concessions."
The verdict was also a setback for plaintiffs' attorney Norwood Wilner, who staked his claim to fame last August by winning a $750,000 product liability judgment against Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. on behalf of smoker Grady Carter, who contracted lung cancer.
"The difference was they were different people and different cases, different judges," Wilner said. "There's a lot of randomness in the jury system. The story of the industry will be told and the industry will eventually be held accountable."
Last summer's judgment against Brown & Williamson, a unit of B.A.T Industries Plc, was only the second time a jury awarded damages against a tobacco company. The first, a $400,000 judgment won by the family of Rose Cipollone of New Jersey in 1988, was overturned on appeal and the case eventually was dropped.
During trial, jurors heard conflicting testimony on what killed Jean Connor and what role smoking played in her death.
They saw tobacco company documents in which Reynolds' own researchers said scientific data drew parallels between smoking and lung cancer, and a controversial 1962 Reynolds document in which a Reynolds' senior researcher, Alan Rodgman, said the amount of evidence accumulated to indict cigarette smoking as a health hazard was "overwhelming."
They also got a brief glimpse of Connor herself, bald from chemotherapy, frail and gaunt, on videotape just days before her death. Connor developed a three-pack-a-day habit before being diagnosed with lung cancer in 1993. She filed a product liability lawsuit against Reynolds and Raulerson took up the case when Connor died.
Reynolds focused its defence on what Connor might have known about the possible health risks of smoking in a bid to show she had chosen to smoke and was responsible for the consequences.
Ronan said she believed the case hinged on personal responsibility. "I think what it ultimately came down to was that people in the 1950s and '60s did know that smoking causes cancer," she said.
The three-page verdict form given to jurors on Friday asked them to answer two key questions: "Was there negligence on the part of defendant R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. which was a legal cause of the death of decedent, Jean Connor?" and "Were the cigarettes manufactured by defendant R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. unreasonably dangerous and defective and a legal cause of the death of decedent, Jean Connor?"
The jurors answered "No" to both questions.