Pakistan's three-month-old government, inheriting an economy battered by years of misrule, has yet to prove it can carry out its bold reform plans.
Foreign economists say Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's team faces a tough task in keeping Pakistan's finances afloat over coming months before the reforms can begin to show any impact.
Finance Minister Sartaj Aziz's plans to revive industry and achieve export-led growth by cutting taxes and tariffs impressed donors at the Aid-to-Pakistan Consortium meeting in Paris last month, but they expressed concern about the immediate future.
"What happens in the short term to the fiscal and balance of payments problem?" asked one participant. "Reducing taxes and tariffs implies immediate revenue losses, but the results of the reforms are not likely to show up for 12 to 24 months."
Economists doubt that economic growth as measured by gross domestic product will exceed three percent this fiscal year ending June 30, against last year's 6.1 percent.
Officials say that revenue, hit by dismal net receipts of customs and sales tax, will reach 290 billion rupees ($7.2 billion), compared to a revised target of 340 billion, but independent experts see 270 billion as a more realistic outcome.
This, they say, could send the budget deficit spinning close to seven percent of GDP, against an original target of four percent and Sharif's goal of six percent.
The former government of Benazir Bhutto proclaimed last year's deficit was five percent of GDP, a figure adjusted to 6.3 percent by the caretaker government that preceded Sharif.
Last week Hafeez Pasha, deputy chairman of the Planning Commission, revised the figure again, this time to 6.8 percent. He put this year's current account deficit at $4.0-4.5 billion, against last year's $4.244 billion, and forecast a trade gap of $3 billion, compared to last year's $3.6 billion.
Domestic bank borrowing may top 100 billion rupees by the end of 1996/97 (July-June), against an original 29.7 billion target, said one senior official, who asked not to be named.
Official figures, widely seen as understating inflation, show consumer prices rising 13.57 percent in April year on year.
Pakistan's inability to meet agreed targets prompted the International Monetary Fund to halt a standby loan after Sharif took power in his February election triumph.
"Over the last two years, Pakistan has experienced a severe aggravation of its macroeconomic imbalances," an IMF official told donors at the Paris meeting. "In particular, the large current deficits put the balance of payments at risk since external reserves are low and the external debt profile not favourable in terms of maturities."
Liquid foreign reserves have risen to $1.09 billion from about $630 million when Bhutto was sacked in November, but still look frail as a cushion against looming debt payments.
The Karachi-based Business Recorder newspaper reported last week that the government planned to tap international markets for $2.58 billion to meet its debt obligations until December.
The IMF official said Sharif's structural reforms, "if implemented fully and accompanied by macroeconomic tightening, would set the stage for high and sustainable economic growth".
An IMF mission arrived in Islamabad last week to set broad macroeconomic targets for 1997/98 in consultation with Finance Ministry officials preparing the June 14 budget.
Another IMF team is expected to begin talks in July on a medium-term loan, or enhanced structural adjustment facility (ESAF), which could be agreed as early as September.
"The crucial element is the intervening period," said one foreign economist, who asked not to be named. "If Pakistan can get through that, the prospects are quite good."
Once the government signs up to an ESAF programme, other multilateral lenders may be willing to support the balance of payments with fast-disbursing funds linked to reform.
The World Bank is likely to step up with at least $200 million to support banking reforms.
The Asian Development Bank (ADB) may move beyond its past focus on project loans. "We believe we will have to re-orientate our operations here to provide policy-type loans," the bank's resident representative, S.B. Chua, told Reuters.
He said the ADB was working on a $200 million loan, which might be approved by November, to back capital market reforms. Another $200 million loan, for trade and industry, could be disbursed next year. Both loans might attract co-financing.
Chua said he was encouraged by the government's strong recognition that drastic action was needed to right the economy, regardless of any outside pressure. "The government 'owns' these reforms," he said. "That is a real change from the past."
($1 = 40.43 rupees)