Sterling's year-long rally has more than justified hedging strategies by British companies, but the pound's dip following Labour's dramatic election victory is unlikely to make the company treasurer's job any easier in the coming months.
Despite radical reforms to Tony Blair's "new" Labour party, treasurers are unsure whether his government will usher in a cheaper pound, easing the strain on companies' overseas earnings and exports.
And uncertainty over Labour's economic policies means they must be as vigilant as ever in covering foreign exchange risk.
Treasury analysts say currency hedging is becoming almost commonplace, certainly among the larger British companies.
But different companies have different appetites for risk and for all those that are fully hedged, there are still many that forego currency protection, choosing instead to ride the ups and downs of the foreign exchange market.
"Those are the two extremes but frequently you find that most companies fall somewhere in the middle," said David Swann, management consultant at Price Waterhouse in London.
"They think hedging is a good thing but, for one reason or another, don't want to be fully hedged.
For example, they may be hedging against an unsure forecast of cash flows from a disparate range of sources."
STERLING'S RISE
Sterling rose by more than 14 percent against the dollar last year, touching multi-year highs above $1.71 at the end of 1996. Since the start of this year, the pound has slipped back slightly in the wake of the dollar's continued climb but is still holding territory above $1.60.
The pound posted even bigger gains against the mark, rising 26 percent from the beginning of 1996 to its recent levels above 2.80 marks. It currently trades around 2.77 marks.
"A five percent movement in sterling across the board, and we're looking at an 85 million sterling move in pre-tax profit," said Angus Russell, group treasurer at the British pharmaceutical and chemical firm Zeneca Group Plc. "So we are sensitive to currency moves and this is part of the rationale we have a reasonably pro-active currency hedging operation."
Hedging, even partially, has so far mitigated some companies' currency-related losses but a problem many treasurers face now is sustained sterling strength and whether to renew their hedges at these higher levels or sit back in the belief that the pound's rise has gone far enough.
"When sterling is as strong as it is now, there is no easy answer. All you're doing by hedging now is locking youself into further high exchange rates on future revenues -- you haven't really solved the problem," said Richard Harris, head of taxation and treasury at the auto components group GKN Plc.
In such situations companies can increase their currency exposure, trimming their hedges back from, say, 80 percent down to maybe 50 percent and lower.
"But then they're taking a risk because what if sterling strengthens even further as it has done," said GKN's Harris.
WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS
There are many avenues treasurers can take to hedge foreign exchange risk but the two basic building blocks for almost all hedging are currency forwards, by far the most popular vehicle for hedgers, and currency options.
Forwards involve fixing a price on the currency ahead of time, while options give traders the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell the currency at a given rate at a specific time in the future. An option to buy is a call option, while an option to sell is a put option.
Zeneca uses a bit of both. The company hedges on a rolling 12-month time horizon, covering its business's working capital 100 percent up to three months ahead in the forwards market and protecting cash flow primarily with options.
"The benchmark for us is to cover 50 percent of those cash flows going out 12 months using purchased options," said Zeneca's Russell. "I can move the level of that cover plus or minus 30 percent, or I can move the cover out of options into forward contracts".
Buying options as a hedge is becoming increasingly popular mainly because of their flexibility compared with the forwards market. But the premium paid for this protection can be high.
A potentially cheaper alternative is an option risk reversal where a call purchase is made simultaneously with a put sale at the same strike price, creating a synthetic forward.
"The risk reversal is usually very cheap with the cost of the call offset by the sale of the put," said an options dealer with a British bank. "If they get exercised on the short put, the corporate will generally be quite pleased because it means their receivables side will have gained on the cheaper currency."
COMPLICATED DERIVATIVE STRATEGIES GAINING ACCEPTANCE
More complicated derivative strategies are gaining increasing acceptance, such as combining forward contract positions with options or, in periods of low volatility, range structures that pay out if the currency keeps within certain limits.
The treasurer can turn the range play -- mainly a volatility hedge -- into a cheap currency hedge by adding a purchased call or put for directional protection. If the currency remains within the specified ranges, the payout can more than offset the cost of the option, while the option provides protection in the event the range is broken.
The more exotic strategies have found a more receptive audience in continental Europe where it is more commonplace for the treasurer to seek profits from forex hedging.
"The UK is much more the middle route. Typically, treasuries are not expected to profit from their activities in hedging markets but then they are not expected to lose much either," said Price Waterhouse's Swann.
"I think treasurers are still wary of being seen to be too innovative in the way they achieve these hedges, they want to be seen to be getting the basics right."
Although hedging helps offset currency strength, it does not last forever and sustained strength will eventually outlast even some of the most conservative hedging programmes. Such a situation may force companies to turn to more dramatic remedies, such as moving cost-bases or entire operations abroad.
"All hedging does is delay the pain. The hedges run out after a while, and if the exchange rate is very heavily set against you, you're going to have to take it on the chin eventually," said Price Waterhouse's Swann. ($ = 0.615 British Pounds)