In the northern Slovenian town of Maribor a young woman student climbs onto a double decker bus. She does not ask for a destination, but to see the Maastricht Treaty on European Union.
The request may seem strange, but then this is no ordinary double decker bus.
Adorned in the blue and white stars of the rich western bloc and with multilingual rock music blaring out, the high-tech Eurobus -- web sites, CD roms and video screen on board -- has come to tell Eastern Europeans what the EU has in store for them.
The student organisers of the Eurobus, which last week completed a four month tour of 30 eastern European university cities spanning seven countries, stress their goal was not propaganda.
"We decided to put Europe on wheels to visit 30 cities, to visit the people who will be the future decision makers of Europe," Christian Mandl, one of the student organisers told Reuters in Maribor.
By the time the bus rumbled home it had been visited by 30,000 people, given out eight tonnes of brochures about the EU and driven 20,000 km (12,400 miles).
The tour, which took in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary, concludes as the European Commission puts the finishing touches to assessments on how prepared 10 eastern European countries are to join the EU.
The Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have also applied for membership of the EU.
STUDENT FUNDING
The students put up one tenth of the cost of the trip themselves, financing most of the rest from corporate sponsors, and are resentful at the lack of enthusiasm shown by the EU executive for their initiative. The Commission only chipped in when they parked the bus illegally outside its Brussels headquarters.
"The result is that a few young people put their money in the programme. They lost money, and the Commission does not care," Mandl said.
If the students who visited the bus from the seven countries showed a common interest, it lay in taking part in EU educational exchange programmes, he explained, although there was no wish to live permanently in the other EU countries.
"In 1989 when the Berlin Wall fell people were afraid of masses of people coming to the west. It's not true because people want to stay in their country and to contribute to the development of the country. The best positions for them are at home," he said.
If they demonstrated a common fear it was of losing their cultural identity and language once members of the giant EU bloc, he said.
But otherwise attitudes from country to country differed.
"We saw that the situation is very different from one country to another," Mandl said.
If students in Maribor hardly batted an eye at the sight of the bus, it is because after breaking free of the old Yugoslavia Slovenians are in no hurry to join another grouping, Slovenian organiser Barbara Kobale explained.
"In a way they understand that they have to open sooner or later, but they don't want to lose their identity or the freedom they gained," she told Reuters in Maribor.
The picture could not have been more different in the countries seen as least likely to make the EU's first enlargement wave early next century -- Romania, Slovakia and Bulgaria.
SLOVAK ENTHUSIASM
In the eastern Slovakian town of Kosice more than 1,000 people besieged the bus, begging not to be left out of the European club and alienated even further from their former partner the Czech Republic, widely expected to enter the EU in the first wave.
"I think that they are afraid of what will happen if the Czech Republic enters without Slovakia, that the EU will divide the Czech and Slovak people even more than before. They think that they should get in together," Mandl said.
The Czechs on the other hand seemed a little too confident of an easy entry. Unlike the other front runners the Poles, who even wanted to know about EU legislation on cucumbers, Czechs had little interest in the details of EU life.
"They are a bit too sure of the fact that they will get into the EU. They are convinced that they are the best country in the region," Mandl said.
In the Romanian town of Timisoara, students queued for hours to enter the bus, to browse the websites and databanks of EU legislation.
"People seemed to be very happy that Europe was coming to them. The question was -- when will we become members," organisers explained.
"In Bulgaria the situation was similar. People are interested in the EU, even though they have other problems right now."
"Many people are frustrated and feel they are nobodies in the middle of nowhere as one person wrote in our guest book."